Add VMware documentation (#1927)
giantswarm/docs: src/content/getting-started/cloud-provider-accounts/vmware-cloud-director/_index.md

---
linkTitle: Preparing VMware Cloud Director for CAPI
title: Preparing VMware Cloud Director for Cluster API
description: How to set up your VMware Cloud Director Cluster tenant to run Giant Swarm management clusters and workload clusters under your jurisdiction.
weight: 80
user_questions:
  - What are the VMware Cloud Director prerequisites for use with Giant Swarm?
  - What do I need to configure in VMware Cloud Director in order to run Giant Swarm clusters?
  - What user permissions do I need to run Giant Swarm clusters in VMware Cloud Director?
menu:
  main:
    identifier: gettingstarted-infraprovider-clouddirector
    parent: gettingstarted-infraprovider
last_review_date: 2023-10-03
owner:
  - https://github.com/orgs/giantswarm/teams/sig-docs
---

> In order to run the Giant Swarm platform in your VMware Cloud Director (VCD) environment, a number of prerequisites must be satisfied to support Cluster API Provider Vmware Cloud Director (CAPVCD).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to run the Giant Swarm platform in your VMware Cloud Director (VCD) environment, a number of prerequisites must be satisfied to support Cluster API Provider VMware Cloud Director (CAPVCD).
```

> In order to run the Giant Swarm platform in your VMware Cloud Director (VCD) environment, a number of prerequisites must be satisfied to support Cluster API Provider VMware Cloud Director (CAPVCD).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to run the Giant Swarm platform in your VMware Cloud Director (VCD) environment, a number of prerequisites must be satisfied to support creating workload clusters with Cluster API Provider VMware Cloud Director (CAPVCD).
```

Author: It's prerequisites for CAPVCD so they apply to being able to run the provider in general.

> ## VCD infrastructure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Cloud Director infrastructure
```

> VMware Cloud Director must run with API version 36 compatibility at least. However, it is highly recommended to run VCD 10.4 or above as it includes shared virtual service IPs.

Reviewer 3: > API version 36 compatibility

is this right? has no minor or path digits? 🤔

Author: This is the minimum version (1.4.x)

Reviewer 3: hmm but from where `36` comes then?

Author: 36 is the VCD API version and 10.4.x is the VCD version

> VMware Cloud Director must run with API version 36 compatibility at least. However, it is highly recommended to run VCD 10.4 or above as it includes shared virtual service IPs.

Reviewer 2: These two numbers have different meanings. From the [docs](https://developer.vmware.com/apis/1170/), I see that API version v36.0 means product version v10.3. Can we mention this here? Note how their documentation uses `v` and dot notation, so I suggest that here.

```suggestion
VMware Cloud Director must run at least with API version v36.0 compatibility (minimum version VCD v10.3). It is highly recommended to run VCD v10.4 or above as it includes shared virtual service IPs.
```

Author: Thanks

## VCD User permissions

> The CAPVCD controller doesn’t require to authenticate directly with the VCD API. This is done on a “per cluster” level as the user will specify a secret containing his/her credentials in the cluster manifest/app. This is so the VCD Resource quotas of each user apply when deploying clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The CAPVCD controller doesn’t require to authenticate directly with the VCD API. This is done on a “per cluster” level as the user will specify a secret containing their credentials in the cluster manifest/app. This is so the VCD Resource quotas of each user apply when deploying clusters.
```

> The CAPVCD controller doesn’t require to authenticate directly with the VCD API. This is done on a “per cluster” level as the user will specify a secret containing their credentials in the cluster manifest/app. This is so the VCD Resource quotas of each user apply when deploying clusters.

Reviewer 2: [minor]

Since a reader may be confused of so much detailed explanation and what a cluster manifest is:

```suggestion
The CAPVCD controller doesn’t require to authenticate directly with the VCD API. This is done on a “per cluster” level as the user will specify a secret containing their credentials in the cluster manifest/app. This is so the VCD Resource quotas of each user apply when deploying clusters. After preparing all requirements, you will read about these details in [Creating a workload cluster]({{< relref "/getting-started/create-workload-cluster" >}}).
```

The user configured for CAPVCD must have at least the following permissions attached to its user role in VCD:

* Rights from the default vApp Author role
* User > Manage user's own API token
* vApp > Preserve All ExtraConfig Elements During OVF Import and Export
* Gateway > View Gateway
* Gateway Services > NAT Configure, LoadBalancer Configure
* Organization VDC => Create a Shared Disk

> * User > Manage user's own API token

Reviewer 2: Please reframe this section to be instructional, as in "Please create a user in the VCD web interface as shown here: ...screenshot...". Most bullet points likely don't need a screenshot, but one initial screenshot to show where to start might be helpful. The remaining actions can then also be turned into simple, bullet-point instructions such as `Enable the permissions "NAT Configure" and "LoadBalancer Configure" and click "Save"`.

## Networking

> The infrastructure backing the OVDC where the clusters will be deployed must be backed by VMware NSX-T and NSX Advanced Load Balancer (ALB). The deprecated NSX-V is not supported.

Reviewer 3: Does not matter which NSX-T version?

Author: Nope, NSX-T is enough

> The infrastructure backing the OVDC where the clusters will be deployed must be backed by VMware NSX-T and NSX Advanced Load Balancer (ALB). The deprecated NSX-V is not supported.

Reviewer 2: Do we need to explain the term OVDC (maybe only spell out the abbreviation once in parentheses)?

Author: That won't hurt yeah

Author: https://github.com/giantswarm/docs/pull/1927/commits/32b8dd1c77ee0fc48d9275e3a7cb04b188133d14

> The Load Balancer section must be enabled on the Edge gateway with a Service Engine Group (SEG). Note that it is recommended to set a dedicated SEG to properly isolate tenants from each other. A pool of external IPs must be available on the Edge gateway to create load balancers.

Reviewer 2: Would a configuration screenshot be helpful for any of these explanations in the whole networking section?

Author: Good idea. https://github.com/giantswarm/docs/pull/1927/commits/32b8dd1c77ee0fc48d9275e3a7cb04b188133d14

> The nodes need at least one network with DHCP or a static IP pool enabled to obtain an IP when spinning up. They must have access to the VCD API endpoint for the controllers to work (CAPVCD, cloud provider interface and container storage interface). Note that we support connecting multiple networks to the nodes with static routes.

Reviewer 2: Please check if my suggestion makes sense. I assumed that only MCs need the API connectivity.

```suggestion
For creating Kubernetes nodes, at least one network with DHCP or a static IP pool enabled is required to obtain IPs. The management cluster must have access to the VCD API endpoint for the controllers to work (CAPVCD, cloud provider interface and container storage interface). Note that we support connecting multiple networks to the nodes with static routes.
```

Author: The WCs as well for CPI and CSI

Author: https://github.com/giantswarm/docs/pull/1927/commits/32b8dd1c77ee0fc48d9275e3a7cb04b188133d14

> The nodes need at least one network with DHCP or a static IP pool enabled  to obtain an IP when spinning up. They must have access to the VCD API endpoint for the controllers to work (CAPVCD, cloud provider interface and container storage interface). Note that we support connecting multiple networks to the nodes with static routes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The nodes need at least one network with DHCP or a static IP pool enabled to obtain an IP when spinning up. They must have access to the VCD API endpoint for the controllers to work (CAPVCD, cloud provider interface and container storage interface). Note that we support connecting multiple networks to the nodes with static routes.
```

> Access to the internet is required for things like FluxCD pulling artifacts from Github, reaching out to Lets Encrypt to validate DNS01 challenges or containerd pulling container images. We support HTTP proxies and we can provide the list of domains to whitelist on the corporate firewall.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Access to the internet is required for things like FluxCD pulling artifacts from Github, reaching out to Lets Encrypt to validate DNS01 challenges or containerd pulling container images. We support HTTP proxies and we can provide the list of domains to whitelist on the corporate firewall. Also Giant Swarm is working on a local Registry as part of our efforts to reduce the need for internet connectivity.
```

> Access to the internet is required for things like FluxCD pulling artifacts from Github, reaching out to Lets Encrypt to validate DNS01 challenges or containerd pulling container images. We support HTTP proxies and we can provide the list of domains to whitelist on the corporate firewall. Also Giant Swarm is working on a local Registry as part of our efforts to reduce the need for internet connectivity.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Access to the internet is required for things like Flux pulling artifacts from Github, reaching out to Lets Encrypt to validate DNS01 challenges or containerd pulling container images. We support HTTP proxies and we can provide the list of domains to whitelist on the corporate firewall. Also, Giant Swarm is working on a local artifact registry as part of our efforts to reduce the need for internet connectivity.
```

> Access to the internet is required for things like Flux pulling artifacts from Github, reaching out to Lets Encrypt to validate DNS01 challenges or containerd pulling container images. We support HTTP proxies and we can provide the list of domains to whitelist on the corporate firewall. Also, Giant Swarm is working on a local artifact registry as part of our efforts to reduce the need for internet connectivity.

Reviewer 2: I removed the roadmap item since that shouldn't go into a getting-started article IMO, creating future assumptions that may or may not hold true. Regarding the allowlist, is it public so we can share the link? Will you add documentation to https://docs.giantswarm.io/advanced/private-clusters/ to describe the proxy feature?

```suggestion
Access to the internet is required for things like Flux (our continuous delivery tooling) pulling artifacts from GitHub, reaching out to Let's Encrypt for certificate issuing, or containerd pulling container images. We support HTTP proxies and can provide the list of domains to allowlist on the corporate firewall.
```

## vApp templates (node images)

> A catalog named `giantswarm` must be accessible to the CAPVCD user with vAPP templates for the nodes to deploy. The templates must be named following this convention `ubuntu-2004-kube-v1.24.11`.

Reviewer: what is a catalog? I think we need to give 1 more sentence of background to the users. I think you are talking about catalogs in Cloud Director (not GS App Catalog)

Author: Good point thanks.

> A vApp template catalog named `giantswarm` must be accessible to the CAPVCD user with vAPP templates for the nodes to deploy. The templates must be named following this convention `ubuntu-2004-kube-v1.24.11`.

Reviewer 2: Does this mean the customer has to provide the Ubuntu images? Can we rephrase this to describe the actions the customer needs to take?

```suggestion
A vApp template catalog named `giantswarm` must be accessible to the CAPVCD user with vApp templates for the nodes to deploy. The templates must be named following the convention `ubuntu-2004-kube-v1.24.11`.
```

## VM Sizing Policies

> VM Sizing Policies must be available to specify the flavour of the nodes when deploying VMs. Each customer can choose how to name and size these policies but we propose the following ones as a starting point:

Reviewer 2: Please also describe where to find this setting

Author: Added link to vmware procedure. https://github.com/giantswarm/docs/pull/1927/commits/32b8dd1c77ee0fc48d9275e3a7cb04b188133d14
